[WIKI] Install - Rewrite "Installing Loris in Depth" for new Wiki (#5253)
aces/Loris: docs/wiki/00 - SERVER INSTALL AND CONFIGURATION/01 - LORIS Install/Installing-Loris-in-Depth.md

# Installing LORIS In-Depth

This guide assumes an installation on an Ubuntu server. 

If you are using CentOS, please visit the CentOS installation guide for 
instructions on installation.

We also have instructions for how to set up LORIS for macOS. However, only
 Ubuntu and CentOS are officially supported by the team so we may be unable to
 help you with issues arising on other systems.

When you've completed this guide, further set up is required. Please visit
[the Setup page](https://github.com/aces/Loris/wiki/Setup) in order to be
able to use LORIS properly.

## Prequisities

### Server Stack

LORIS requires a LAMP stack in order to run, specifically:
* Apache 2.4
* MySQL 5.7 (or MariaDB 10.1) (or higher)
* PHP 7.2 (or higher)

Additionally, LORIS requires the following package managers:
* npm 8.0 (or higher)
* composer

This guide does not cover installation of these requirements.

### Apt Packages
The following Ubuntu packages are required and should be installed using 

> `sudo apt install ...`.

Author: Note that this section can be removed when/if #4365 gets merged.

# Installing LORIS In-Depth

This guide assumes an installation on an Ubuntu server. 

If you are using CentOS, please visit the CentOS installation guide for 
instructions on installation.

We also have instructions for how to set up LORIS for macOS. However, only
 Ubuntu and CentOS are officially supported by the team so we may be unable to
 help you with issues arising on other systems.

When you've completed this guide, further set up is required. Please visit
[the Setup page](https://github.com/aces/Loris/wiki/Setup) in order to be
able to use LORIS properly.

## Prequisities

### Server Stack

LORIS requires a LAMP stack in order to run, specifically:
* Apache 2.4

> * MySQL 5.7 (or MariaDB 10.1) (or higher)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* MySQL 5.7 (or MariaDB 10.3) (or higher)
```

* PHP 7.2 (or higher)

Additionally, LORIS requires the following package managers:
* npm 8.0 (or higher)

> * composer

Reviewer: Any minimal version?
Some people had problem with older version recently.

Author: what problems?

Reviewer: `make` failing with error. See mailing list.

Author: I'm not sure what version is needed. I'll make a separate issue for this because this will need to be fixed in other places than this document.

Author: #5845

This guide does not cover installation of these requirements.

### Apt Packages
The following Ubuntu packages are required and should be installed using 
`sudo apt install ...`.

* git
* curl
* wget
* zip
* unzip

> * php-json

Reviewer: php-json **and** php7.2-json?

## Getting the source code

### LORIS for Development
If installing LORIS for development purposes, clone the source code from our
GitHub repository to the web root. Then change to this directory.

Example command assuming LORIS will be served from `/var/www/`:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:aces/Loris.git /var/www/loris
cd /var/www/loris/
```

### LORIS for Production

Visit the releases page and download the zipped file of the latest LORIS
release. The below command will download the latest LORIS release and save 
it to a file named `loris-src.tar.gz`.

```bash
curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/aces/loris/releases/latest \
| grep 'tarball' \
| cut -d : -f2,3 \
| tr -d \" \
| tr -d , \
| wget -i - -O loris-src.tar.gz
```

When this is complete, expand the compressed file and move its contents to the
directory from which LORIS will be served. 

```bash
tar -zxf loris-src.tar.gz
```

This will create a folder called something like `aces-Loris-9e30cf0`. (The
part after `aces-Loris` is not important).

Rename this file to `loris`, e.g.

```bash
mv aces-Loris-9e30cf0 loris
```

Then move this folder to the web root (e.g. `/var/www/`) and go to this 
directory.

```

> mv ./loris /var/www/loris/

Reviewer: The last 2 step could be combine in only one move instruction.

cd /var/www/loris/
```

## Running the install script

The next step in setting up LORIS is running the script `install.sh` in the 
`tools/` directory. The script must be run from this directory.

This will begin an interactive setup process that will configure files and
permissions required to get LORIS up and running.

> The install script will prompt for a `root` password in order to configure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The install script will prompt for the user password in order to use `sudo` permission for configuring
```
A note specifying that the user should be a member of the `sudo`group would be helpfull here.
